= Developing Spring for Apache Hadoop Applications

This section provides some guidance on how one can use the Spring for
Apache Hadoop project in conjunction with other Spring projects,
starting with the Spring Framework itself, then Spring Batch, and then
Spring Integration.

== Guidance and Examples

Spring for Apache Hadoop provides integration with the Spring Framework
to create and run Hadoop MapReduce, Hive, and Pig jobs as well as work
with HDFS and HBase. If you have simple needs to work with Hadoop,
including basic scheduling, you can add the Spring for Apache Hadoop
namespace to your Spring based project and get going quickly using
Hadoop.

As the complexity of your Hadoop application increases, you may want to
use Spring Batch to regain on the complexity of developing a large
Hadoop application. Spring Batch provides an extension to the Spring
programming model to support common batch job scenarios characterized by
the processing of large amounts of data from flat files, databases and
messaging systems. It also provides a workflow style processing model,
persistent tracking of steps within the workflow, event notification, as
well as administrative functionality to start/stop/restart a workflow.
As Spring Batch was designed to be extended, Spring for Apache Hadoop
plugs into those extensibilty points, allowing for Hadoop related
processing to be a first class citizen in the Spring Batch processing
model.

Another project of interest to Hadoop developers is Spring Integration.
Spring Integration provides an extension of the Spring programming model
to support the well-known https://www.enterpriseintegrationpatterns.com/[Enterprise
Integration Patterns]. It enables lightweight messaging _within_
Spring-based applications and supports integration with external systems
via declarative adapters. These adapters are of particular interest to
Hadoop developers, as they directly support common Hadoop use-cases such
as polling a directory or FTP folder for the presence of a file or group
of files. Then once the files are present, a message is sent internally
to the application to do additional processing. This additional
processing can be calling a Hadoop MapReduce job directly or starting a
more complex Spring Batch based workflow. Similarly, a step in a Spring
Batch workflow can invoke functionality in Spring Integration, for
example to send a message though an email adapter.

No matter if you use the Spring Batch project with the Spring Framework
by itself or with additional extentions such as Spring Batch and Spring
Integration that focus on a particular domain, you will benefit from the
core values that Spring projects bring to the table, namely enabling
modularity, reuse and extensive support for unit and integration
testing.

=== Scheduling

Spring Batch integrates with a variety of job schedulers and is not a
scheduling framework. There are many good enterprise schedulers
available in both the commercial and open source spaces such as Quartz,
Tivoli, Control-M, etc. It is intended to work in conjunction with a
scheduler, not replace a scheduler. As a lightweight solution, you can
use Spring's built in scheduling support that will give you cron-like
and other basic scheduling trigger functionality. See the
https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/faq.html#schedulers[Task Execution
and Scheduling] documention for more info. A middle ground it to use
Spring's Quartz integration, see
https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/4.1.x/spring-framework-reference/html/scheduling.html#scheduling-quartz[Using
the OpenSymphony Quartz Scheduler] for more information. The Spring
Batch distribution contains an example, but this documentation will be
updated to provide some more directed examples with Hadoop, check for
updates on the https://projects.spring.io/spring-hadoop/[main web site of
Spring for Apache Hadoop].

=== Batch Job Listeners

Spring Batch lets you attach listeners at the job and step levels to
perform additional processing. For example, at the end of a job you can
perform some notification or perhaps even start another Spring Batch
job. As a brief example, implement the interface
https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/core/JobExecutionListener.html[JobExecutionListener]
and configure it into the Spring Batch job as shown below.

[source,xml]
----
<batch:job id="job1">
  <batch:step id="import" next="wordcount">
    <batch:tasklet ref="script-tasklet"/>
  </batch:step>
            
  <batch:step id="wordcount">
    <batch:tasklet ref="wordcount-tasklet" />
  </batch:step>

  <batch:listeners>
   <batch:listener ref="simpleNotificatonListener"/>
  </batch:listeners>

</batch:job>

<bean id="simpleNotificatonListener" class="com.mycompany.myapp.SimpleNotificationListener"/>
----

== Other Samples

The sample applications have been moved into their own repository so
they can be developed independently of the Spring for Apache Hadoop
release cycle. They can be found on GitHub
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-hadoop-samples/.

We also keep a numerous Spring IO getting started guides up to date
with a latest GA release at https://spring.io/guides?filter=yarn.

The
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-hadoop/wiki/Sample-Projects[wiki
page] for the Spring for Apache Hadoop project has more documentation
for building and running the examples and there is also some
instructions in the _README_ file of each example.

