[[springandhadoop-pig]]
== Pig support

For https://pig.apache.org[Pig] users, SHDP provides easy creation and
configuration of PigServer instances for registering and executing
scripts either locally or remotely. In its simplest form, the
declaration looks as follows:

[source,xml]
----
<hdp:pig />
----

This will create a org.springframework.data.hadoop.pig.PigServerFactory
instance, named `pigFactory`, a factory that creates `PigServer`
instances on demand configured with a default PigContext, executing
scripts in `MapReduce` mode. The factory is needed since `PigServer` is
not thread-safe and thus cannot be used by multiple objects at the same
time. In typical scenarios however, one might want to connect to a
remote Hadoop tracker and register some scripts automatically so let us
take a look of how the configuration might look like:

[source,xml]
----
<pig-factory exec-type="LOCAL" job-name="pig-script" configuration-ref="hadoopConfiguration" properties-location="pig-dev.properties" 
   xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/hadoop">
     source=${pig.script.src}
   <script location="org/company/pig/script.pig">
     <arguments>electric=sea</arguments>
   </script>
   <script>
     A = LOAD 'src/test/resources/logs/apache_access.log' USING PigStorage() AS (name:chararray, age:int);
     B = FOREACH A GENERATE name;
     DUMP B;
   </script>
</pig-factory> />
----

The example exposes quite a few options so let us review them one by
one. First the top-level pig definition configures the pig instance: the
execution type, the Hadoop configuration used and the job name. Notice
that additional properties can be specified (either by declaring them
inlined or/and loading them from an external file) - in fact,
`<hdp:pig-factory/>` just like the rest of the libraries configuration
elements, supports common properties attributes as described in the
<<springandhadoop-config,hadoop configuration>> section.

The definition contains also two scripts: `script.pig` (read from the
classpath) to which one pair of arguments, relevant to the script, is
passed (notice the use of property placeholder) but also an inlined
script, declared as part of the definition, without any arguments.

As you can tell, the `pig-factory` namespace offers several options
pertaining to Pig configuration.

=== Running a Pig script

Like the rest of the Spring Hadoop components, a runner is provided out
of the box for executing Pig scripts, either inlined or from various
locations through `pig-runner` element:

[source,xml]
----
<hdp:pig-runner id="pigRunner" run-at-startup="true">
   <hdp:script>
        A = LOAD 'src/test/resources/logs/apache_access.log' USING PigStorage() AS (name:chararray, age:int);
        ...
   </hdp:script>
   <hdp:script location="pig-scripts/script.pig"/>
</hdp:pig-runner>
----

The runner will trigger the execution during the application start-up
(notice the `run-at-startup` flag which is by default `false`). Do note
that the runner will not run unless triggered manually or if
`run-at-startup` is set to `true`. Additionally the runner (as in fact
do all <<springandhadoop-runners,runners>> in SHDP) allows one or multiple `pre` and
`post` actions to be specified to be executed before and after each run.
Typically other runners (such as other jobs or scripts) can be specified
but any JDK `Callable` can be passed in. For more information on
runners, see the <<springandhadoop-runners,dedicated>> chapter.

==== Using the Pig tasklet

For Spring Batch environments, SHDP provides a dedicated tasklet to
execute Pig queries, on demand, as part of a batch or workflow. The
declaration is pretty straightforward:

[source,xml]
----
<hdp:pig-tasklet id="pig-script">
   <hdp:script location="org/company/pig/handsome.pig" />
</hdp:pig-tasklet>
----

The syntax of the scripts declaration is similar to that of the `pig`
namespace.

=== Interacting with the Pig API

For those that need to programmatically interact directly with Pig ,
Spring for Apache Hadoop provides a dedicated
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_method_pattern[template], similar
to the aforementioned `HiveTemplate`. The template handles the
redundant, boiler-plate code, required for interacting with Pig such as
creating a new `PigServer`, executing the scripts, catching any
exceptions and performing clean-up. One can programmatically execute
scripts but also interact with the Hive API through the
`PigServerCallback`. For example:

[source,xml]
----
<hdp:pig-factory ... />
<!-- Pig template wires automatically to 'pigFactory'-->
<hdp:pig-template />
    
<!-- use component scanning-->
<context:component-scan base-package="some.pkg" /> 
----

[source,java]
----
public class SomeClass {
  @Inject
  private PigTemplate template;

  public Set<String> getDbs() {
      return pigTemplate.execute(new PigCallback<Set<String>() {
         @Override
         public Set<String> doInPig(PigServer pig) throws ExecException, IOException {
            return pig.getAliasKeySet();
         }
      });
  }
}
----

The example above shows a basic container configuration wiring a
`PigTemplate` into a user class which uses it to interact with the
`PigServer` API. Notice that the user does not have to handle the
lifecycle of the `PigServer` instance or catch any exception - these are
handled automatically by the template which converts them, like the rest
of the Spring templates, into `DataAccessException`s. Thus the
application only has to track only one exception hierarchy across all
data technologies instead of one per technology.

