[[springandhadoop-security]]
== Security Support

Spring for Apache Hadoop is aware of the security constraints of the
running Hadoop environment and allows its components to be configured as
such. For clarity, this document breaks down _security_ into HDFS
permissions and user impersonation (also known as _secure_ Hadoop). The
rest of this document discusses each component and the impact (and
usage) it has on the various SHDP features.

=== HDFS permissions

HDFS layer provides file permissions designed to be similar to those
present in *nix OS. The official {hadoop-Security}[guide]
explains the major components but in short, the access for each file
(whether it's for reading, writing or in case of directories accessing)
can be restricted to certain users or groups. Depending on the user
identity (which is typically based on the host operating system), code
executing against the Hadoop cluster can see or/and interact with the
file-system based on these permissions. Do note that each HDFS or
`FileSystem` implementation can have slightly different semantics or
implementation.

SHDP obeys the HDFS permissions, using the identity of the current user
(by default) for interacting with the file system. In particular, the
`HdfsResourceLoader` considers when doing pattern matching, only the
files that it's supposed to _see_ and does not perform any privileged
action. It is possible however to specify a different user, meaning the
`ResourceLoader` interacts with HDFS using that user's rights - however
this obeys the #security:kerberos[user impersonation] rules. When using
different users, it is recommended to create separate `ResourceLoader`
instances (one per user) instead of assigning additional permissions or
groups to one user - this makes it easier to manage and wire the
different HDFS _views_ without having to modify the ACLs. Note however
that when using impersonation, the `ResourceLoader` might (and will
typically) return _restricted_ files that might not be consumed or seen
by the callee.

=== User impersonation (Kerberos)

Securing a Hadoop cluster can be a difficult task - each machine can
have a different set of users and groups, each with different passwords.
Hadoop relies on
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerberos_%2528protocol%2529[Kerberos], a
ticket-based protocol for allowing nodes to communicate over a
non-secure network to prove their identity to one another in a secure
manner. Unfortunately there is not a lot of documentation on this topic
out there. However there are
https://hortonworks.com/blog/fine-tune-your-apache-hadoop-security-settings/[some]
https://ccp.cloudera.com/display/CDHDOC/Configuring+Hadoop+Security+in+CDH3[resources]
to get you started.

SHDP does not require any extra configuration - it simply obeys the
security system in place. By default, when running inside a _secure_
Hadoop, SHDP uses the current user (as expected). It also supports _user
impersonation_, that is, interacting with the Hadoop cluster with a
different identity (this allows a superuser to submit job or access hdfs
on behalf of another user in a secure way, without _leaking_
permissions). The major MapReduce components, such as `job`, `streaming`
and `tool` as well as `pig` support user impersonation through the
`user` attribute. By default, this property is empty, meaning the
current user is used - however one can specify the different identity
(also known as _ugi_) to be used by the target component:

[source,xml]
----
<hdp:job id="jobFromJoe" user="joe" .../>
----

Note that the user running the application (or the current user) must
have the proper kerberos credentials to be able to impersonate the
target user (in this case _joe_).

=== Boot Support

==== `spring.hadoop.security` configuration properties

Namespace `spring.hadoop.security` supports following properties; 
<<spring.hadoop.security.authMethod,authMethod>>,
<<spring.hadoop.security.userPrincipal,userPrincipal>>,
<<spring.hadoop.security.userKeytab,userKeytab>>,
<<spring.hadoop.security.namenodePrincipal,namenodePrincipal>> and
<<spring.hadoop.security.rmManagerPrincipal,rmManagerPrincipal>>.

[[spring.hadoop.security.authMethod]]`spring.hadoop.security.authMethod`::
  Description:::
Defines a used Hadoop security authentication method. Currently if set
only value `KERBEROS` is supported.
  Required:::
No
  Type:::
String
  Default Value:::
null

[[spring.hadoop.security.userPrincipal]]`spring.hadoop.security.userPrincipal`::
  Description:::
Defines a used Hadoop kerberos user principal.
  Required:::
No
  Type:::
String
  Default Value:::
null

[[spring.hadoop.security.userKeytab]]`spring.hadoop.security.userKeytab`::
  Description:::
Defines a used Spring Hadoop user facing kerberos keytab file path.
This needs to be a fully qualified path to a file existing on a local
file system. Due to restrictions in jvm's kerberos implementation,
relative paths or resolving from a classpath are not supported.
  Required:::
No
  Type:::
String
  Default Value:::
null

[[spring.hadoop.security.namenodePrincipal]]`spring.hadoop.security.namenodePrincipal`::
  Description:::
Defines a used Hadoop kerberos namenode principal.
  Required:::
No
  Type:::
String
  Default Value:::
null

[[spring.hadoop.security.rmManagerPrincipal]]`spring.hadoop.security.rmManagerPrincipal`::
  Description:::
Defines a used Hadoop kerberos resource manager principal.
  Required:::
No
  Type:::
String
  Default Value:::
null

